DOCKERS
                   Dockers is a build and deployment tool the main idea is we can put together all the required dependencies installation commands together the code so that it installs the dependencies first to run the application. We can automate this by putting installs the dependencies first to run the application. we can automate this by putting inside a .yml file and specify the actions. 


CONTAINERS
                 Containers follows the same concept of classes in java we can put many images inside it, these containers can contact with other and also contact with external applications.


IMAGES
                Images follows object concept of java we can add many images inside the containers ,we can download images from the Dockerhub.official images has official tags in the hub.


REPOSITORY
        Repository is a collection of different docker images with the same name, that have different tags, each tag usually represents a different version of the image.


TYPES OF DEFAULT NETWORK IN DOCKERS
                 1)  None network
           2)  Bridge network
           3)  Overlay network


None Network
         It provides the maximum level of network protection. It not a good choice, if network or internet connection is required. Suites well there where the container require the maximum security and network access is not necessary.


Bridge Network
         In a bridge network, containers have access tom two network interfaces.
* A loopback interface
* A private interface               
        All containers in the same bridge network can communicate with each other.


Overlay Network
        It supports multi-host networking out-of-the-box.
        It requires some pre-existing conditions before it can be created.
* Running Docker engine in Swarm mode
* A key-value store such as consul.


BASIC COMMANDS
        docker ps                         -           We can can get running containers using this 
                                                            Commands
     docker images                        -           See all the images
    docker run image_name  -            Run the images  
    docker run -d image_name  -        Run the images in background
    docker run pd image_name:tag  - We can run the specific version of the image 
                                                             using the command
    docker run -d --name Image_name my_name  - We can give a name for the 
                                                                                    Images
    docker pull image_name  -    We can pull image from the hub using this 
                                                    Command
    docker start -d container_name - Starts the container
    docker stop                -              Stops the running container
    docker logs container_name  -      See the logs of the particular container
    docker push image_name  -    Pushes the image of the container to the docker 
                                                     Hub
   docker swarm init - It initialize a swarm. The docker engine targeted by this 
                                     Command becomes a manager in the newly created single-
                                    Node swarm 
   docker swarm join – Join a swarm as a swarm node 
   docker swarm leave – Leave the swarm